.TH FTNTOSS 1 "2025" "libFTN" "FidoNet Tools"
.SH NAME
fntosser \- FidoNet Technology Network message tosser
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fntosser
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fB-c\fR \fICONFIG_FILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fntosser
is a FidoNet message tosser that processes incoming FTN packets, sorts messages, and distributes them to their destinations. It can deliver netmail to local user mailboxes, route echomail to newsgroups, and prepare mail for outbound delivery to other FTN nodes.

fntosser can run in two modes: single-shot or daemon mode. In single-shot mode, it processes all available mail and then exits. In daemon mode, it runs continuously in the background, processing mail at regular intervals.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c, --config FILE
Specifies the path to the configuration file. This option is required.
.TP
.B -d, --daemon
Runs fntosser in continuous (daemon) mode.
.TP
.B -s, --sleep SECONDS
Sets the sleep interval in seconds for daemon mode. This overrides the `sleep_interval` setting in the configuration file. Default is 60.
.TP
.B -v, --verbose
Enables verbose logging to standard output. Overrides the log level in the configuration file to DEBUG.
.TP
.B -h, --help
Displays a help message and exits.
.TP
.B --version
Displays version information and exits.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration is specified in an INI-style file. See
.B fntosser.ini
(5) for details on the format and available options.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reloads the configuration file without stopping the daemon.
.TP
.B SIGTERM, SIGINT
Causes the daemon to shut down gracefully.
.TP
.B SIGUSR1
Dumps current processing statistics to the log.
.TP
.B SIGUSR2
Toggles debug logging on or off.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/fntosser.ini
Default location for the configuration file.
.TP
.B /var/run/fntosser.pid
Default location for the PID file in daemon mode.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR pkt2mail (1),
.BR pkt2news (1),
.BR msg2pkt (1)
